# Fantasy Optimizer

This project is something I've been working on for a long time. Sports has long been a passion of mine. I've been playing fantasy sports since I was 12! My dad let me have my own team in his friend's league when a spot opened up. Since then I've been playing pretty much fantasy anything.

Daily fantasy sports let you create a new lineup every day/week which is great if your season long team is struggling. I was also intruiged by how the "sharks", aka the guys who do it for a living win consistently. No doubt they are great fans and watch the games, but they let their math make the decisions with their models. It's all a game of numbers and matchups. I wanted to try and crack the code, but was unable at the time.

After graduating from Purdue and starting at OSU I gained enough of a math and programming background to make some progress. I found a method for assigning 'weights' to players expected performance based on thinge such as if the game is being played 2 nights in a row, how does this player perform against this player gaurding him historically, or that team historically, is it a revenege game, a rivalrly game? Will it be a blowout and he see reduced minutes and production? There are endless factors that are difficult to capture, especially as at the end of the day the players are humans.

Right now this project isn't the most presentable here on GH, and I don't want to give everything away because I have indeed found success with my methods. For now I would like to speak of the project itself, but I am thinking of a way to show more of what I've done aside from the pictures. Overall it has definitely been my most mathematical project; I actually used some of the statistics I learned in a grad class at Purdue and read through the textbook. I am searching for ways to improve my methods, but I think it is currently headed in a positive direction.
